So which collector should we use?
Well, as you can imagine, there's no easy answer to this question.
We've seen that Java offer a mixture of different garbage collectors from the
serial collector all the way through to the new G1 collector.
And it's not a simple job to pick one of these collectors.
There are many,
many articles on the web on profiling the application and picking the right
collector depending on that profile. You need to run the application when
you're testing it with as close to production load as possible and then use the
data from that to pick the garbage collector.
Ideally,
you'd run the test using many different garbage collectors and using the
many flags offered by the Java runtime. And finally,
just some references. There are some excellent Oracle references that talk about how these garbage collectors work.